W-18761614 & W-17225983 alerts hyperforce duke (#392)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/alerts-jp-ca.adoc

> = Getting Alerts in Anypoint Monitoring (Canada and Japan)

Author: THIS ENTIRE PAGE WILL NEED TECH AND PEER REVIEW when it's ready.

* *Resource Type*: *API* or *Mule Application*
* *Resource:* Name of the API or Mule application 
.. Click *Next* to open *Set Alert Condition*. 
. In *Set Alert Condition*, configure the criteria for triggering the alert:
.. Select the <<metrics, metric>> that the alert uses.
.. Select the <<severity, severity>> of the alert.
.. Provide a <<threshold, threshold>> for triggering the alert.
.. Click *Next* to open *Configure Email Notification*. 
. In *Configure Email Notification*, configure the email to send when the alert triggers.
+
To use variables in the email, see <<variables>>.
.. Provide a subject.
.. Provide the message.
.. Identify recipients. 

[[status]]
== Alert Statuses

The *Alerts* page indicates whether an alert is currently triggering or in some other state.  

//TODO: Same as comm cloud or not?
include::partial$include-alert-state.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[[severity]]
== Alert Severities

//Note: This is different from comm cloud -- migration issue?
Use your organization's alerting criteria when setting an alert's severity. Available severity levels are:

* *Low*
* *Medium*
* *High*
* *Critical*

[[threshold]]
== Alert Conditions

> Alert condition configurations indicate when the data collected on a <<alert-metrics, metric>> triggers the alert. The configurations follow this form:

Author: ```suggestion
Alert condition configurations indicate when the data collected on a <<alert-metrics, metric>> triggers the alert. Configurations for alert thresholds follow this form:
```

. Review the alert list that returns. 
+
Each alert provides:

* *Alert Name*: Name of the alert
* *Severity*: Configured <<severity, severity>> of the alert
* *Status*: Current <<status, status>> of the alert
* *Metric*: Name of the <<metrics, metric>> that the alert reports
//NOT SUPPORTED YET: Resource (was Entity)
//* *Resource*: Name of the Mule app or API that the alert is for
* *Last Alerted*: Most recent date and time the alert triggered or *-* for an alert that has never triggered
* *Creation Date*: Alert creation date and time
* *Availability*: *Enabled* or *Disabled* alert setting

[[create]]
== Create an Alert

Configure an alert, the condition for triggering the alert, and the alert notification.

. From *Alerts* in Anypoint Monitoring, click *Create Alert*. 
. Configure alert properties:
.. Provide a name for the alert.
.. Select the <<environment, environment>> in your organization for this alert. 
//TODO: IS "resource" the term we'll use; check on final name in UI. Was "entity" and "entity type"
.. Select the resource type and resource that the alert is for. 

* *Resource Type*: *API* or *Mule Application*
* *Resource:* Name of the API or Mule application 

> .. Click *Next* to open *Set Alert Condition*. 

Author: ```suggestion
.. For an API alert, select an API version. 
.. Click *Next* to open *Set Alert Condition*. 
```

//* <<severity, Severity>>
//* <<search, Search>> 
//. To narrow the list of alerts, search for an alert name. 
//+
//The search field accepts partial word searches.
. Review the alert list that returns. 
+
Each alert provides:

* *Alert Name*: Name of the alert
* *Severity*: Configured <<severity, severity>> of the alert
* *Status*: Current <<status, status>> of the alert
* *Metric*: Name of the <<metrics, metric>> that the alert reports
//NOT SUPPORTED YET: Resource (was Entity)
//* *Resource*: Name of the Mule app or API that the alert is for
* *Last Alerted*: Most recent date and time the alert triggered or *-* for an alert that has never triggered
* *Creation Date*: Alert creation date and time
* *Availability*: *Enabled* or *Disabled* alert setting

[[create]]
== Create an Alert

Configure an alert, the condition for triggering the alert, and the alert notification.

. From *Alerts* in Anypoint Monitoring, click *Create Alert*. 
. Configure alert properties:
.. Provide a name for the alert.
.. Select the <<environment, environment>> in your organization for this alert. 
//TODO: IS "resource" the term we'll use; check on final name in UI. Was "entity" and "entity type"

> .. Select the resource type and resource that the alert is for. 

Author: ```suggestion
.. Select the resource type and resource that the alert is for. Only actively running resources are available.
```

> .. Select the resource type and resource that the alert is for. Only actively running resources are available.

Author: ```suggestion
.. Select the resource type and resource that the alert is for. Only active resources that can receive traffic are available.
```

= Getting Alerts in Anypoint Monitoring (Canada and Japan)
//:page-notice-banner-message: <b>Pilot release</b>: This feature is for a Pilot release in Canada and Japan Cloud instances of Anypoint Platform. 

//feature tier:
include::partial$subsection-pills.adoc[tag="anypoint-cloud-support-advanced-only"]

> In the https://ca1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Canada] and https://jp1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Japan] Clouds, create and receive alert notifications for your deployed resources (Mule app and APIs). 

Author: ```suggestion
In the https://ca1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Canada] and https://jp1.platform.mulesoft.com/monitoring[Japan] Clouds, configure and monitor alerts for your deployed resources (Mule app and APIs). Receive alert notifications for each alert that triggers.  
```

.. Provide a <<threshold, threshold>> for triggering the alert.
.. Click *Next* to open *Configure Email Notification*. 
. In *Configure Email Notification*, configure the email to send when the alert triggers.
+
To use variables in the email, see <<variables>>.

.. Provide a subject.
.. Provide the message.
.. Identify recipients. 

[[status]]
== Alert Statuses

The *Alerts* page indicates whether an alert is currently triggering or in some other state.  

//TODO: Same as comm cloud or not?
include::partial$include-alert-state.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[[severity]]
== Alert Severities

//Note: This is different from comm cloud -- migration issue?
Use your organization's alerting criteria when setting an alert's severity. Available severity levels are:

* *Low*
* *Medium*
* *High*
* *Critical*

[[threshold]]
== Alert Conditions

Alert condition configurations indicate when the data collected on a <<alert-metrics, metric>> triggers the alert. Configurations for alert thresholds follow this form:

//TODO: VERIFY THE Above/Below; verify variable replacement of "selected metric" with name of metric

[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Configuration Pattern | Example 

> | *Trigger alert when selected metric is _Above\|Below_ _Number_ for each of the last _Number_ consecutive minutes.*

Author: ```suggestion
| *Trigger alert when selected metric is _Greater than\|Less than\|Greater than or equal to\|Less than or equal to\|Equal to_ _Number_ for each of the last _Number_ consecutive minutes.*
```

> | *Trigger alert when selected metric is _Above_ _4_ for each of the last _10_ consecutive minutes.*

Author: ```suggestion
| *Trigger alert when selected metric is _Greater than_ _4_ for each of the last _10_ consecutive minutes.*
```

|===

> The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is greater than (*Above*) 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must exceed 4 for each minute of minutes 1-10.  For example, if the count is greater than 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not for the tenth minute, the alert does not trigger, even if the count reaches 4 at minute 11. Following the same rule, if the count is greater than 4 for minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Greater than or equal to* (`>=`) 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must meet the criteria for each minute of minutes 1-10. For example, if the count is `>=` 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not for the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, even if the count reaches 4 at minute 11. Following the same criteria, if the count is `>=` 4 for minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.
```

> The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Greater than or equal to* (`>=`) 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must meet the criteria for each minute of minutes 1-10. For example, if the count is `>=` 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not for the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, even if the count reaches 4 at minute 11. Following the same criteria, if the count is `>=` 4 for minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.

Author: ```suggestion
The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Greater than* 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must exceed 4 each minute of minutes 1-10. For example, if the count exceeds 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, even if the count reaches 4 at minute 11. Following the same criteria, if the count exceeds 4 for minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.
```

> The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Greater than* 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must exceed 4 each minute of minutes 1-10. For example, if the count exceeds 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, even if the count reaches 4 at minute 11. Following the same criteria, if the count exceeds 4 for minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.

Author: ```suggestion
The example configures an alert to trigger when the selected metric (such as *Message Count*) is *Greater than* 4 for 10 consecutive minutes. In other words, the count must exceed 4 for each minute of minutes 1-10. For example, if the count exceeds 4 for 9 of 10 minutes, but not the tenth minute, the alert doesn't trigger, even if the count exceeds 4 at minute 11. Following the same criteria, if the count exceeds 4 for each minute of minutes 11-20, the alert triggers.
```

Alerts are specific to one of your Anypoint Platform environments.

Your organization administrator xref:access-management::environments.adoc#to-create-a-new-environment[creates] the environments that are available to you.

Anypoint Platform supports these types of xref:access-management::environments#types-of-environments.adoc[environments]:

* *Design*
* *Production*
* *Sandbox*

////

//TODO: TECH DEBT - TURN THE METRICS INTO INCLUDES - descriptions from basic-alerts.adoc
[[metrics]]
== Alert Metrics

A Mule application or API metric is part of the <<threshold, configuration for triggering the alert>>. 

Mule app metrics:

* *Message Count*: Total number of Mule messages that processed successfully
* *Message Error Count*: Number of Mule messages that return an exception in a flow
* *Average Response Time*: Response time (in milliseconds) of a message
* *CPU Utilization*: Percent of CPU used on the virtual machine 
+
This metric includes all processes and is available only for apps deployed to CloudHub or Anypoint Runtime Fabric.
* *Memory Utilization*:
Percent of heap used
+
This metric is available only for apps deployed to CloudHub or Anypoint Runtime Fabric.
+

> Anypoint Monitoring tracks heap usage and triggers memory alerts based on the value of `heap_used`/`heap_total`. Note that `heap_total` isn't the identical to the maximum heap memory allocated to the Mule app on CloudHub. For example, 0.2 vCores indicates that the maximum heap memory is 1 GB (see the table in xref:cloudhub::cloudhub-architecture.adoc#cloudhub-workers[CloudHub Workers]), but the value of `heap_total` isn't 1GB. Instead, `heap_total` is the maximum amount of memory that the JVM can use for heap memory, where objects are created and stored. In Java, this value changes dynamically depending on memory fragmentation, garbage collection, and other memory management features. For more information about the JVM Heap Total Memory values, see xref:dashboard-config-ref.adoc#metrics_advanced[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Monitoring tracks heap usage and triggers memory alerts based on the value of `heap_used`/`heap_total`. Note that `heap_total` isn't identical to the maximum heap memory allocated to the Mule app on CloudHub. For example, 0.2 vCores indicates that the maximum heap memory is 1 GB (see the table in xref:cloudhub::cloudhub-architecture.adoc#cloudhub-workers[CloudHub Workers]), but the value of `heap_total` isn't 1GB. Instead, `heap_total` is the maximum amount of memory that the JVM can use for heap memory, where objects are created and stored. In Java, this value changes dynamically depending on memory fragmentation, garbage collection, and other memory management features. For more information about the JVM Heap Total Memory values, see xref:dashboard-config-ref.adoc#metrics_advanced[Advanced Mode Metrics for Applications].
```
